# Efficient Adversarial Sequence Generation for RNN with Symbolic Weighted Finite Automata

[TOC]



## Contributions

- An efficient adversarial sequence generation approach for RNN by SWFA is proposed. The key is to extract SWFA from RNN with the symbolic extraction algorithm.
- The proposed adversarial sequence generation algorithm has been implemented, which outperforms the state-of-art attack methods with almost 112.92% improvement and 1.44 times speedup.
- The experiments on the autonomous driving dataset show that the adversarial sequences generated by our approach are more covert compared with the state-of-the-art methods.

## Problem Set (Input, Output):

**Definition** Fast k-DCP

#### 算法1：RNN->SWFA by Fast k-DCP

**input**: RNN 序列W K T

**output**: SWFA

**Definition** Symbolic Block

### 算法2：基于SWFA的对抗序列生成

**input**: x~0~; continuous c $\in$ {true, false}; Number of nodes to be disturbed n; Perturbation intensity $\epsilon \in${1,2,3}

**output**: 对抗序列x’

**Definition** 000-status



## Example


## motivation



## challenge

### Challenge-I

The sequence data usually reflects more trend information compared with the image data, thereby the perturbations on sequences are easier to perceive, which increases the difficulty of generating adversarial sequences.

与图像数据相比，序列数据通常反映了更多的趋势信息，因此对序列的扰动更容易感知，从而增加了生成对抗序列的难度。

### Challenge-II

As the sequence length increases, the complexity of the perturbation will also increase exponentially.

随着序列长度的增加，扰动的复杂度也会呈指数增长。



## approach

There are two phases in our approach.

### I

**Symbolic Weighted Finite Automata Extraction**. The extracting algorithm extracts SWFA from the trained RNN. It is the key part of the approach, which constructs the symbolic state space. On the other hand, the symbolic input are abstracted from datasets.

### II

**Adversarial Sequences Generation by SWFA**. We perturb the symbolic input to get symbolic sequences. To accelerate the generation process, we formally analyze the reachability of SWFA to rapidly check whether the newly generated symbolic sequence is an adversarial one. If the symbolic sequence is judged as an adversarial symbolic sequence, we can collect concrete adversarial sequences from symbolic adversarial sequences by sampling techniques.



## experiment



### Dataset

UCR time-series datasets and NGSIM

## References

Symbolic Weighted Finite Automata (SWFA) (Suzuki et al. 2021) 它可以更有效地处理无限字母上的字符串。


### SOTA(State-Of-The-Art)



## What-can-improve / What-didn’t-do

